.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2005-2010 Thierry FOURNIER
.\" $Id: arpalert.8 399 2006-10-29 08:09:10Z thierry $
.\"
.TH ARPALERT 8 2006-05-09 "" "arp traffic monitoring"
.SH NAME
arpalert \- ARP traffic monitoring
.SH DESCRIPTION
Arpalert uses ARP protocol monitoring to prevent unauthorized connections on the local network. 
If an illegal connection is detected, a program or script is launched, which could be used to send an alert message, for example.
.SH COMMAND LINE
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Run as daemon
.TP
\fB\-D log_level\fR
The level logged. the level are bitween 0 (emergency) and 7 (debug). if 3 is selected all levels bitween 0 and 3 arre logged.
.TP
\fB\-e exec_script\fR
Script launched when an alert is send
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
The help command line.
.TP
\fB\-i interface\fR 
Comma separated network interfaces to lesson
.TP
\fB\-f config_file\fR
Use this config file
.TP
\fB\-l leases_file\fR
This file contain a dump of the mac address in memory (see config file).
.TP
\fB\-p pid_file\fR
Use this pid file. this file contain a pid number of the arpalert session. if the file exist and his locked, the deamon do not run.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR
Set the interface in promiscuous mode (don't set this if only the arp analyse is used)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Watch on screen all the option selected (the options specified in config file and the default options)
.TP
\fB\-w\fR
Debug option: print a dump of paquets captured.
.\"
.\" CONFIG FILE
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The config file contain 3 types of data: integer, string and boolean. The boolean type can take values 'oui', 'true', 'yes', '1'
for the true values or 'non', 'no', 'false', '0' for the falses values.
.TP
\fBuser\fR = arpalert
Use privileges separation whith this user
.TP
\fBumask\fR = 177
Uses this mask for the files created
.TP
\fBchroot dir\fR = /home/thierry/arp_test/
Use this directory for program jail
.br
If this option is commented the program does not chroot
.br
The program read the config file and open the syslog socket before the chroot:
.br
The kill -HUP does not run with chroot.
.br
If the syslog program is restarted, the socket change and the arpalert syslog system can't be connect to the new socket:
the logs with syslog are disabled. Prefere to use the log file.
.br
All the path file are relative to the chroot dir (but not the config file)
.TP
\fBlog file\fR = /var/log/arpalert.log
The program log into this file
.br
If this option is commented, the internal system log is not used
.br
The internal system logs can be used in same time that syslog.
.TP
\fBlog level\fR = 6
The level logged. the level are bitween 0 (emergency) and 7 (debug). if 3 is selected all levels between 0 and 3 are logged.
.TP
\fBuse syslog\fR = true
If this option is false, the syslog system is disabled
.TP
\fBmaclist file\fR = /etc/arpalert/maclist.allow
white list
.TP
\fBmaclist alert file\fR = /etc/arpalert/maclist.deny
black list
.TP
\fBmaclist leases file\fR = /var/lib/arpalert/arpalert.leases
dump fil
.TP
\fBdump inter\fR = 5
minimun time to wait between two leases dump
.TP
\fBauth request file\fR = /etc/arpalert/authrq.conf
list of authorized request"
.TP
\fBlock file\fR = /var/run/arpalert.lock
pid file
.TP
\fBdump paquet\fR = false
Only for debugging: this dump paquet received on standard output
.TP
\fBdaemon\fR = false
if is set to true, run the program as daemon
.TP
\fBinterface\fR = ""
Comma separated network interfaces to lesson. If this value is not specified, the soft select the first interface.
.TP
\fBcatch only arp\fR = TRUE
Configure the network for catch only arp request.
The detection type "new_mac" is desactived.
This mode is used for CPU saving if Arpalert is running on a router
.TP
\fBmod on detect\fR = ""
Module file loaded by arpalert. This module is launched on each valid alert.
This system permit to avoid a costly fork/exec
.TP
\fBmod config\fR = ""
this chain is transfered to the init function of module loaded
.TP
\fBaction on detect\fR = ""
Script launched on each detection. Parameters are: \fBmac adress of requestor\fR, \fBip of requestor\fR, \fBsupp. parm.\fR, \fBtype of alert\fR
.IP
type of alert:
.br
\fB0:\fR IP change
.br
\fB1:\fR Mac address already detected but not in white list
.br
\fB2:\fR Mac address in black list
.br
\fB3:\fR New mac address
.br
\fB4:\fR Unauthorized arp request
.br
\fB5:\fR Abusive number of arp request detected
.br
\fB6:\fR Ethernet mac address different from arp mac address
.br
\fB7:\fR Flood detected
.br
\fB8:\fR New mac address whithout ip address
.TP
\fBexecution timeout\fR = 10
script execution timeout (seconds)
.TP
\fBmax alert\fR = 20
maximun simultaneous lanched script
.TP
\fBdump black list\fR = false
dump the black listed mac address in leases file
.TP
\fBdump white list\fR = false
dump the white listed mac address in leases file
.TP
\fBdump new address\fR = true
dump the new mac address in leases file
.TP
\fBmac timeout\fR = 259200
after this time a mac adress is removed from memory (seconds) (default 1 month)
.TP
\fBmax entry\fR = 1000000
after this limit the memory hash is cleaned (protect to arp flood)
.TP
\fBanti flood interval\fR = 10
this permit to send only one mismatch alert in this time (in seconds)
.TP
\fBanti flood global\fR = 50
if the number of arp request in seconds exceed this value, all alerts are ignored for
"anti flood interval" time
.TP
\fBmac vendor file\fR = ""
This file contain the association from mac address to vendor name. This file can be
downloaded here: http://standards.ieee.org/regauth/oui/oui.txt
.TP
\fBlog mac vendor\fR = false
log vendor name
.TP
\fBalert mac vendor\fR = false
give vendor name to script
.TP
\fBmod mac vendor\fR = false
give vendor name to module
.TP
\fBlog referenced address\fR, \fBalert on referenced address\fR, \fBmod on referenced address\fR = false
log/launch script/call module if the adress is referenced in hash but is not in white list
.TP
\fBlog deny address\fR, \fBalert on deny address\fR, \fBmod on deny address\fR = true
log/launch script/call module if the mac adress is in black list
.TP
\fBlog new address\fR, \fBalert on new address\fR, \fBmod on new address\fR = true
log/launch script/call module if the adress isn't referenced
.TP
\fBlog mac change\fR, \fBalert on mac change\fR, \fBmod on mac change\fR = true
log/launch script/call module if the ip adress id different from the last arp request with the same mac adress
.TP
\fBlog ip change\fR, \fBalert on ip change\fR, \fBmod on ip change\fR = true
log/launch script/call module if the ip adress id different from the last arp request with the same mac adress
.TP
\fBlog unauth request\fR, \fBalert on unauth request\fR, \fBmod on unauth request\fR = true
unauthorized arp request: launch if the request are not authorized in auth file
.TP
\fBignore unknown sender\fR = true
dont analyse arp request for unknow hosts (not in white list)
.TP
\fBignore self test\fR = true
Ignore ARP self test generated by windows dhcp for unauthorized request detection
.TP
\fBignore me\fR = true
ignore arp request with mac adresse of the listened interfaces for the authorizations checks
.TP
\fBunauth ignore time method\fR = 2
select suspend time method:
.br
1: ignore all unauth alerts during "anti flood interval" time
.br
2: ignore only tuple (mac address, ip address) during "anti flood interval" time
.TP
\fBlog request abus\fR, \fBalert on request abus\fR, \fBmod on request abus\fR = true
log/launch script/call module if the number of request per seconds are > "max request"
.TP
\fBmax request\fR = 1000000
maximun request authorized by second
.TP
\fBlog mac error\fR, \fBalert on mac error\fR, \fBmod on mac error\fR = true
log/launch script/call module if the ethernet mac address are different than the arp amc address (only for requestor)
.TP
\fBlog flood\fR = true
\fBalert on flood\fR = true
\fBmod on flood\fR = true
log/launch script/call module if have too many arp request per seconds
.\"
.\" CONFIG FILE
.\"
.SH DATA FILES FORMATS
.TP
\fB/etc/arpalert/maclist.allow\fR and \fB/etc/arpalert/maclist.deny\fR:
all the line with # as a \fBfirst\fR caracter are ignored
.br
The data on this file take this form
.br
<MAC_ADRESS> <IP_ADDRESS> <DEVICE> [<FLAG> <FLAG> <FLAG> ...]
.br
The available flags are:
.br
\fBip_change:\fR Ignore ip change alert for this mac address
.br
\fBblack_listed:\fR Ignore black list alerts for this mac address
.br
\fBunauth_rq:\fR Ignore unauthorized requests for this mac address
.br
\fBrq_abus:\fR Ignore request abus for this mac address
.br
\fBmac_error:\fR Ignore mac error for this mac address
.br
\fBmac_change:\fR Ignore mac change for this mac address
.TP
\fB/etc/arpalert/authrq.conf\fR:
all the word after # caracter are ignored
.br
all the blank characters are ignored
.br
The authorisations list for one mac address begin by the mac address into brackets
.br
All the next values are ip hosts address or ip networks address (with /xx notion)
.br
[<MAC_ADRESS> <DEVICE>] <IP_ADRESS>
.br
<IP_ADRESS>/<BITS>
.br
.\"
.\" CONFIG FILE
.\"
.SH FILES
\fBsbin/arpalert\fR: binary file
.br
\fBetc/arpalert/arpalert.conf\fR: default config file
.br
\fBvar/run/arpalert.pid\fR: pid file
.br
\fBvar/state/arpalert.leases\fR: leases file
.br
